this video is a critique of extinction
rebellion and it is not just based on
reading the information on the website
it is not just based on watching the
YouTube videos in the YouTube channel it
is not just based on attending a lecture
delivered by their leader and main
spokesperson actually got to talk to the
guy even though it was via Skype
they took questions from the audience I
got up I stated my question heard his
answer so in some small measure I got
the interview or cross-examine the
leader of this organization and let me
tell you something even though this
video is a critique of extinction
rebellion it's gonna give you a much
more positive impression of this
absolutely awful social movement that if
you went and took a look at the
propaganda materials they're producing
for themselves
my name is Tina Russell and I'm the
vision Kinko's nature for extinction
rebellion and I have said many times
between Roger and Gail
this is why perhaps I'm here talking to
you about to introduce
part of the debrief which was very
special for a great number of people
extinction rebellion is about moral
leadership and it's about more Olympic
ability
it's about truth-telling when we show
our leadership and we stand with others
in that leadership how do we navigate so
that we hold each other in our in our
most exquisite leadership there's a
moment where Gale speaks about someone
in our movement Ronin describing them as
the Sun in the moon and in that mo
in that moment in that narrative which I
think some people have heard a few times
the rest of us can wonder who we are
and I think that's why I I'm so happy to
be able to speak to you because I want
to say to people that are watching this
that we are Co leaders and that if there
is a Sun in the moon then you are the
stars came together to basically
recreate what it means to be on the
basis of the social science and on the
basis of spirituality ISM very sort of
inputs and and there's a certain
brutality in that because we went out
into the public sphere and said if you
don't like it then start your own social
movement and you're we're holding all of
this together how could I possibly
indict them how could I possibly make
them look more ridiculous more terrible
than this kind of material they're
producing with themselves they openly
talk about themselves being a spiritual
movement they wear this medallion that
makes them look like a cult their main
claim to fame the main thing they are
proud of is that they've gotten more
than 1000 people arrested so as of April
22nd 2019 more than 1,000 people have
been arrested in the United Kingdom
basically in England at their protests
oh all the red flags are here and if you
actually read the text on their website
carefully it's gonna give you a very
very negative impression organization
now the first thing I said to him when I
asked my question was thank you for your
lecture by the way this is somewhere on
the internet different it was multiple
people filmed me talking to this guy and
I'm sure it's been uploaded to multiple
YouTube channels but the first thing I
said to him was look the presentation
you just gave perhaps because you're
addressing your comments to an audience
of people all of whom want to make the
world a better place
open want to solve these problems the
presentation just gave gave me a much
better impression than anything I read
on your website or anything I saw on
your YouTube channel listening to the
same guy give lectures on his YouTube
channel gave me an absolute
the terrible impression of this
organization what it's about and made me
feel that I was very much their enemy
and I should mention the other thing
that's in framing this discourse for
many people and was the final question
to face is the extent to which
extinction rebellion is onion ante vegan
or not vegan enough I actually felt II
handled that question reasonably well
it's certainly not the most outstanding
problem with this social movement you
know once in a while there's like a
little piece of rhetoric that seems to
take on a life of its own it seems to
overpower the minds of the people
presenting that rhetoric
it's like a runaway freight train it's
like the Train is more powerful than the
tracks that's going on or it's like the
tool becomes more powerful than the
purpose the tool was meant to be put to
and the results are pathetic and
dangerous like there's been this idea
bouncing around the vegan demi-monde for
maybe 20 years that oh the the future is
social science research the future is
moving away from methods of protests
that are just based on like passion or
opinion or creativity or the arts or I
know or politics or law oh yeah politics
politics and science those are tips
everything's no no now we're gonna we're
gonna wipe the chalkboard clean and
we're gonna start again with the
findings of social science research I
said you know this rhetoric has gotten
old people I mean if anyone found it
convincing say as recently as two
thousand fifteen when direct action ever
we're we're really taking that seriously
by now it's like an old pair of socks
that have holes worn through it I think
most people even if they're not really
doing any independent research they've
started to guess that this is kind of a
snake hole salesman you're kind of
suspicious okay you're now you're gonna
tell me about slavery and Mahatma Gandhi
and how social science research has
proven that your method is effective not
what people of the Ethical Treatment of
Animals is doing not what Greenpeace is
doing not with the government you alone
have come to the
conclusions from your examination of
social science research and yet somehow
each of the organization's each of the
cult groups frankly that makes this
claim they come to completely different
conclusions well gee it's kind of like
I've been back in the dark ages
it seems like every version of
Christianity and every version of Islam
they were really certain they'd studied
the sacred tax and come to the correct
conclusions and they were willing to
kill the followers of all the other
forms of Christianity all the other
forms of law they were certain that
their views were backed up by the Bible
or in Islam's case backed up by the
Quran and yet mysteriously it seems like
you know these are not really scientific
conclusions they they came to so when I
got in the microphone I guess last
things first here I said to in the most
polite way possible after thanking him
for his presentation after telling him
that his presentation gave me a much
much more positive view of his
organization than horses Asians on
propaganda did I said well you know um
it does seem to me that when you make
these claims about social science
research and about what's effective you
know there is some cherry-picking
involved here the method you have put
forward for this new movement extinction
rebellion abbreviated as XR the the it's
identical to what's happening right now
in Hong Kong it the math physics agonism
Hong Kong protests they shut down the
highways they shut down major roads they
shut down the airport it's exactly his
form of mass occupy nonviolent
nonviolent but just barely nonviolent
protests and I said you know what um if
I were gambling man I tell you that in
Hong Kong
it's not gonna work they're protesting
for democracy and democracy is not what
they're gonna get it's not gonna be that
he's either facing off against China's
red army and they're gonna lose eight
you know I know a lot of other examples
that people don't like to discuss and
don't get included Cambodia comes to
mind um but you know there are so many
all around the world there of course
there's so many nobody's talking about
here like oh oh gee you want to talk
about the abolition of slavery hmm
why doesn't China count did you know
China has its own history of the
abolition of slavery oh you didn't know
that oh so you didn't actually read any
books or do any social
all right I'm sorry you're a version of
the history of the abolition of slavery
it's the product of your ideology going
back and picking and choosing things
from history that reinforces your biases
you know what you want is oh my god
sorry China I mean look I also think the
history of slavery in Haiti is very
important but admittedly Haiti is one
small island in the Caribbean we can
learn a lot from studying the history of
how slavery got abolishing slavery you
can learn a lot it'll give you
nightmares people it's real violent it's
a real gory it's real fascinating
okay admittedly Haiti is after all one
small island in the Caribbean
China China was a pretty big part of
planet Earth's inhabited landmass still
is still but you know if we're talking
about the history of the abolition of
slavery could it be could it be that
this is um Eurocentric could it be could
it be that you're taking a really simple
stereotyped notion of what happened the
United States and you're just ignoring
like the Civil War you're constructing
this story about nonviolent protest and
disruption and ignoring you know the
fact that there was actually a civil war
that was involved in it which could it
be could it be that you're choosing
someone like Martin Luther King jr.
you're saying Martin Luther King jr. is
a hero but you're ignoring how he died
um you're ignoring that the things you
say he accomplished were actually
accomplished by Lyndon Johnson after the
assassination of John F Kennedy like hmm
it's there are some huge gaps and these
narratives you're presenting about
social science research and learning the
lessons of history
it sounds like instead you just have an
ideology the same way the Communists did
in the past and then you're trying to
vindicate that ideologies through the
very selected very biased reading of
history and the Christians did that
before to believe oh man the Christians
could interpret history to back up all
their all their fantasies about what
society wasn't you say hey when I got up
on the microphone to talk to this guy
leader and communications director for
extinction rebellion I said it was well
you know you look at hong kong which
seems to be exactly your method you look
at cambodia
and there are a lot of other examples
people aren't thinking about here and
there aren't included in these
generalizations and you know what I
really just don't feel that there's like
some kind of self-evident empirical fact
here that your methods are backed up by
socialism I said it in the really in the
nicest way possible it was a lot nicer
there that I'm being in this video you
know what he said back to me he said uh
well you know you're right um like at
least forty four percent of the time
these methods don't work it's close to
50/50 it's but it's at least like thirty
four percent of the time you concede he
concedes for a person that doesn't work
and yeah you know what like Hong Kong in
Cambodia yeah probably not probably your
claim to fame is you got a thousand
people arrested and went to prison in
England right okay so this is one
thousand and sixty five people have been
arrested
obviously in England the authorities are
probably going to be very kind to these
people probably not very many of them
are going to are gonna really do hard
time in prison because the British
authorities will Pro is say well you had
good intentions you know probably
sympathetic was you let's just say I
pathetically said a thousand people to
jail maybe they spent only one night in
jail but still they have a criminal
record they got to get a lawyer and deal
cut yeah and you're telling me you
completely accept there's at least a
forty four percent chance that this is
for nothing you know that's a contrast
from the ultra confident over-the-top
rhetoric you've been presenting even in
this same lecture in this same
presentation you gave to all the people
in this audience today here in Toronto
okay look guys I took a lot of notes
during this lecture I listened to what
he had to say let's do it from his
perspective civil disobedience Gandhi I
wrote this all down here I I feel like
this is a nice video a little bit more
than ten minutes long we just leave it
there um there were a lot of snake oil
salesmen going on here in vegan activism
in ecological activism and this guy has
already been cross-examined oh I'll give
the link below this video
if you want to know the classic vegan
perspective on this group gary france
aione has already gone after them with
his fangs and teeth read saying that
they're anti vegan and they kind of are
from their perspective what they say is
they are a quote unquote broadchurch
there's supposedly inclusive of meat
eaters and hunters and everyone else and
they see themselves as just a short-term
protest strategy to quote unquote save
the planet there's a short-term
emergency and they want everyone to
participate in these mass protests that
want tens of thousands of people to get
arrested not just one thousand they want
tens of thousands of people to occupy
bridges and highways and airports and
shut down cities and they think that's
gonna make a difference and they're
peddling an over-the-top doomsday
scenario interpretation of the science
on climate change which is dubious kind
of a story for another video but they
present this all-or-nothing Manicheans
struggle either plan earth is gonna
survive or it's not so who cares if
you're vegan what really matters is
whether or not you're willing to sign up
for their crazy cult where this magic
amulet and accept the leadership of
these two people who they refer to as
the Sun and the moon of their spiritual
organization where you can either
respect their leadership or get out and
start your own movement as I played in
the clip yeah that sounds great
oh yeah right right and it's just like
direct action ever oh yeah at the same
time it's completely non hierarchical
it's completely horizontal and
participatory and kohli
yeah right yeah this doesn't sound like
one person is it are two people or a
church at all
uh-huh yeah I've kind of heard this
story before guys and yeah all the
claims it's the same rhetoric if the
same [ __ ] excuses down to
generalizations about Mohandas Gandhi
and Martin Luther King jr. and social
science research man we live in
dangerous times because people want to
feel like they're part of the solution
and they are signing up to become part
of the problem people are in between
ideologies they're desperate for answers
and they don't want to live with the
gnawing doubt of just carrying with them
the questions I mean
people like to disrespect my truth but
the fact is that you know my name is I
don't know